As you can see a composer
is prettypracticed full.
We had add right?
Add takes an x and a y and
each of this functions are in composition,
it needs to be a function
that takes one argument.
And so if you actually need to call
add in the middle of this thing,
you're going to have to
preload it with something.
So we'll add like the exclamation
point here instead of exclaim,
we can get rid of exclaim or
we could define it in terms of add.
Of course we'll have to curry
add to be able to do that.
And there we go,
now currying is paying for itself, right?
It's gonna start with the left side first,
right?
So, let's flip the order here.
Actually let's just go ahead and
define a concat, a proper concat for
all of us to use.
[LAUGH] So,
which we can do a flip add again.
Love that flip, usually it
doesn't come in handy that much.
[LAUGH] So, we'll concat it on to the end.
There we go.
So you can see, using currying and
composition they play together
because you're able to make every
function into a unary function,
a function that takes one argument
instead of a binary or more.
And so
as our data flows through our pipeline,
we make everything to one arg at a time.
So when we look at this, we can quickly
see kind of what's happening here is we're
going to hit the YouTube API and
grab that property off the Jason, and
grab the first, grab the URL,
pass that into the feed.
You can kinda see how these functions,
it looks like nothing's happening, but
this just giant pipelines of data to flow
through each taking one argument and
that's your data.
So you have this data structure that
you're maintaining that's flowing through
your pipe.
That's kind of the fundamental
shift from the other paradigms.
And if we kinda look at this, so here's
a composition, I call it do your stuff.
It's, out on the App Store.
You can download it.
[LAUGH] But basically,
we're gonna start down at the bottom,
working our way up, right,
it's right to left.
So we're gonna turn something to lowercase
and then split it and then trim it and
reverse it and grab anything greater than
three and then join it all together.
Fun.
So down to the bottom,
these little blocks,
you think our data flowing in and
then it you know gets lowercased,
each of these blocks would
be like a function call.
I didn't have enough
to really match it up.
And you can see as it flows through our
program, the data is being manipulated and
we get to our result, right?
So, one thing to keep in mind is, if I
break the chain, that′s it, we′re done.
Everything must be composed,
everything must be connected.
If I don′t actually flow
through this pipeline,
by definition of a function that
takes input to output, if I don′t
then pass that output into another input,
that's the end of the programme.
That'll be the return value.
So, in this way, what you're
doing is taking a very complex,
you know graph of procedures and
operations and kind of wrangling it
into a pipeline of data processing.
And we can get more advanced and
do really interesting things with this
once we'll start after lunch on that.
But this is kind of fundamentally what
we're gonna do is pipe data through.
This is the same function [LAUGH]
written as,
I would say like as bad, well it's not
bad, as performance as I could write it.
[LAUGH] But
I see this stuff like every single day.
I work with programmers that
come from the C++ background and
whatever else and this is very
comfortable but what's happening is,
and if you want to get into performance,
we can make this extremely performant,
probably way more performant than this.
And we could have a coffee and
talk that out.
But what you're seeing here is state
manipulations, through and through,
nothing is connected,
nothing can be connected.
It's like all we're doing is introducing
variables and mutating variables.
This whole state of California and
flipped it for mutation,
and the idea is that like you know,
we got more state and more state, first we
define lower then we define words and
then we reverse the words we mutate them.
Then we go through and change them and
as we reach the end of our program,
we're just like throwing trash out
into the global environment like
all these are still available for
me and they're even changing.
So this is kind of
harder to deal with than
the data flowing through,
because state is defined as
one of the hardest things in programming
to manage, and keep in your head.
This is really poorly,
don't worry about this one.
It's just a class as an app mailer, but if
you want to look at how this class would
be defined in an object oriented sense,
it's a graph of state changes.
Your object oriented programming
takes all that state, blows it up for
encapsulation and then it mutates
the state in all different places, so
you think it looks really clean and
nice but it still a [LAUGH] tiny
graph of state mutations, right?
Its not a clean data pipeline through
functions, its a graph of data changes.
Now you could always write
an object oriented programme not
in terms of functions,
and that's totally fine.
It's a false dichotomy there.
You could totally use object
oriented stuff for this.
But that's what you'll typically see,
right?
I should know.
Yes.
>> Going back to your diagram,
would it be fair to say since we're
dealing with an undirected graph
that we're essentially looking at
the possibility of state mutation.
So the problem with the output is
it's gonna fall somewhere in this
massive interconnections.
>> That's a great to put it cuz
the composition could totally be a graph.
It's just a directed graph.
>> Yes.
>> And yes, [CROSSTALK] Exactly.
And we'll talk about kind of wrangling
things into a linear control flow with
phuncters, the identity phuncters soon,
but yes, totally agree.